---
layout: page
title: Policies
description: >-
    Course policies and information.
---

# Policies
{:.no_toc}

## Attendance

This seminar requires your full participation: you are expected to
contribute to a classroom atmosphere of mutual respect and
productivity.  Complete all assigned readings before class and come to
class on time, prepared with comments and questions. Class
participation will be evaluated by the overall quality of your
contributions, which includes attendance and listening as well as
speaking. Each unexplained absence will result in a one-third of a
letter grade reduction (e.g. from an A to an A-, and so on) in the
in-person component of your participation grade.

## Academic Accommodations 

Students must register with the Office of Disability Services
(ods@princeton.edu; 258-8840) for disability verification and
determination of eligibility for reasonable academic accommodations.
Requests for academic accommodations for this course should be made at
the beginning of the semester or as soon as possible for newly
approved students. I encourage students with approved accommodations
to contact me at the beginning of the semester and again before major
course assessments. Please note that no accommodations for a
disability will be made without authorization from ODS or without
advance notice. 

## Academic Integrity

If you use Generative AI tools (such as GitHub CoPilot) on the
independent project or in your other work on this class, you should
describe how you used the tool, and include both the prompt(s) and the
corresponding output(s) in a text file in your project. Using these
tools without disclosing when and how you used them is a violation of
the University’s academic regulations (see §2.4.6).
