---
layout: page
title: Project
description: >-
  Independent research project.
---

# Independent Research Project

The semester-long project in COS 597S is a systems-building project,
done either individually or in a small team, that must involve
significant programming and development effort.  If done in a small
team, team members are expected to share equally in the implementation
effort, and will describe each others' work at the end of the
semester.

## Topic

There are two types of projects in 597S:

### Reimplementing and Reproducing Research Project

Reproducibility in research is important for the integrity of the
scientific record and the overall trajectory of the community's
research: positive or negative results in the scientific record
influence what problems a researcher tackles next.   This is
especially important in the wireless domain where the environment
itself can be a source of variation in results.  The goal of this type
of project is to independently reimplement a published research result
and based on your independent code, execute an independent evaluation
with the aim of reproducing some or all of the prior-published
experimental results. 

### Novel Research Project

Novel research project topics must be closely related to the content
and topics taught in 597S, and must be formulated after discussion and
consultation with the instructor, who will take a narrow view of which
project satisfy this criterion (e.g. your ongoing research on
superconducting quantum devices will not likely be approved).

## Project Proposal

There are two types of projects in this class: reproducing othersâ€™
research results, and novel research.  Initial Proposals should be
submitted as public posts on the Ed discussion board and be about 500
words in length.  Following the initial proposals, there will be a
discussion period involving a back-and-forth between the proposers,
their classmates, and the instructor, on the Ed discussion board
(participation here is worth 20% of the participation component of
your grade).  Based on these discussions, final proposals should be
refined and expanded to be approximately 750 words in length.

### Reproducing Research Proposal

Include a background paragraph or two giving the name of the paper,
the authors, venue, and year, followed by a brief summary of the
paper's problem domain and the challenges the paper is solving. 

Next describe the technical approach the authors take, their
evaluation strategy, and the key experimental results they present.

Your reproduction and evaluation plan should comprise the bulk of your
proposal; begin with your proposed implementation strategy (language,
programming framework, hardware/software setup if needed).  Next comes
your evaluation strategy- are you using simulated data and/or traffic
or signal traces?  What key results from the paper are you trying to
reproduce?  Be specific here, mentioning the figures and your
rationale for choosing these results.  Discuss how you will compare
your findings with the previously published results, either
quantitatively or qualitatively, and your rationale for this choice.
Discuss any new questions you will attempt to answer about the
experimental results or any new settings you will evaluate that may
not be addressed in the original paper.

### Novel Research Proposal

Begin with a background paragraph introducing the problem your
research project is attempting to solve and why it is an important
problem to solve.  Include an explanation of how your problem relates
to the topics and/or papers of 597S.  Include a discussion of the
problem's novelty: what's the current state of the art in the research
literature (and possibly industry), and why are these approaches
insufficient?  What is your novel technical insight or approach to
solving the problem?

Next present a plan for your implementation, specifying details such
as programming languages, platforms, traces, data sets, frameworks,
etc.  

Then, discuss your experimental evaluation plans: what are the key
questions that your evaluation will address?  What is your evaluation
strategy in terms of the experimental methodology- go into specifics
on how you will design your experiments to answer the questions you
have posed.  Then, what experimental results will you produce- in
paragraphs, you should present a rough subsection-by-subsection
outline of what you expect the experimental evaluation section in your
final report will look like.  Include here planned graphs, specifying
axis categories for each plot (i.e., what type of plot is it-
line/bar/CDF/scatter plot?  What will be on the x-axis, and the
y-axis?)

## Final Project Deliverables

There are three deliverbles for the final project: code, project
presentation, and a paper.

The code should be delivered as a URL to a private github repository
owned by the Princeton University organization or your own github
account.

The project presentation should follow the same outline as a research
paper presentation (minus the "opinion part") and will be 20-40
minutes in length (TBA later in the semester).

The paper should be six to eight pages of two-column text
(excluding references) following [USENIX
format](https://www.usenix.org/conferences/author-resources/paper-templates).
Appendices should contain only Generative AI prompts if you used them
in your project.

## Project Timeline

- October 4, 2024: Team Formation and Initial Project Proposal
  deadline
- October 5--October 24, 2024: Proposal Discussion Period (Ed
  Discussions)
- October 25, 2024: Final Project Proposal deadline
- December 13, 2024 (Dean's Date) 11:59 PM: Final Project Report and
  Final Source Code Submission deadline

## Collaboration Policy

Students are encouraged to talk to each other and the instructor about
the project, but assistance must be limited to discussion of the
problem and sketching general approaches to a solution.  Each student
or pair must produce their own work and write their own code.
